# guide-maker // martyr⁠—

PDFs are good for priting stuff and preserving a certain layout.

But they're bad for modern digital purposes.

Web pages are great. They're responsive, interactive, it just works.

Guides and manuals for martyr⁠— products should be delivered in a way that are:

-  Easy to use like a PDF. Double click in a file and you're all set.
-  Just one file, like a PDF
-  Simple to read and understand

HTML pretty much solves all these issues, except for the one file part. Want custom fonts and images inside the document? You'll end up with scattered folders and files along the .html file.

That sucks. But... we have a workaround for that: the extension [SingleFile](https://github.com/gildas-lormeau/SingleFile) allows to turn every image and font into embedded base64 strings inside the html file.

Basically, everything fits into one file! To make the images interactive and zoomable, a chunk of custom javascript code should be injected into it.

And... that's it! The rest of the process is basically formating the html in martyr⁠— fashion, coming from an exported HTML page made in Notion.

## Process

Reference: https://www.notion.so/alejandro9r/advanced_guide-glass_M0RPH1SM-b10f25f99d1441dc9d304b32b3a5b098

1. Page in notion like the reference. Force black text for the table of contents.

   Breaking lines with enter+shift won't work in the final HTML. You have to place manual \<br\> tags to those places

2. Export in HTML
3. Unzip the exported file with all images into a folder

   Example title: quickguide // glass_M0RPH1SM

   I call the script from an alias `martyr-guide-maker` in my `.bashrc`

5. `cd` into the folder and run `martyr-guide-maker {thefile}.html`. It will serve the page on http://localhost:8000
6. Save page with `SingleFile` extension on Brave

   SingleFile options:

-  User interface: **disable** display an infobar \[...\]
-  Network: blocked resources: **disable** scripts (to enable it)
-  HTML content: **enable** set content security policy

7. Delete the comment generated by `SingleFile` on top of the HTML document

Important note: An updated CSS file won't be saved by SingleFile because it reads the oldest one from the cache. I need to fix this somehow.

Beware of upcoming changes to SingleFile due to Manifest v3. Maybe in the future I will need to use an old chromium build or firefox. Due to January 2023
